# GetingCleaningData_CourseProject
All files required for the Course Project of the Coursera Course Getting and Cleaning Data

This repository contains the following files:

- run_Analysis.R: a script that does the following:
	1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
	2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
	3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
	4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
	5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
	
	IMPORTANT: in order for this script to run properly, it is required that the getdata-projectfiles-UCI HAR Dataset.zip file is extracted in the folder where the script is located. 
	As a result of this extraction, there should be a sub-folder "UCI HAR Dataset" in the main folder.
	The working directory of R needs also to be set to the folder where the script is located. 

- analysis.md: a file that contains the steps taken in the run_Analysis script, but adds a lot of comment to it. 
This file explains in detail the steps taken to come from input data to the tidy datasets. 

- analysis.rmd: a R markdown file that was used to generate the analysis.md file. 

- tidyMeanData.csv: a file that is generated by the run_Analysis.R script (step 5). It contains a number of averaged features, averaged per activity type and per subject. 
More details can be found in the codebook.md file and the analysis.md file. 

- tidyTotalData.csv: a file that is generated by the run_Analysis.R script (after step 4). It contains measurements of a number of features variables for subjects and activities. 
More details can be found in the codebook.md file and the analysis.md file. 

- getdata-projectfiles-UCI HAR Dataset.zip: a zip file containing all the raw data files used, inlcuding complementary codebook files that describe the raw data in more detail.

- codebook.md: a markdown file that describes the raw data, the data analysis steps and transformations, as well as the final datasets obtained. 

- codebook.rmd: the R markdown file that was used to generate the codebook.md file. 

- getdata-projectfiles-UCI HAR Dataset.zip: a zip archive containing all the input data files. 

- a folder "UCI HAR Dataset" that is basically the result of unzipping the above named zip archive. 